in this video once talked about the
normal equation and non-invertibility
this is a somewhat more advanced concept
but it's something that I often been
asked about and so once talked about
here an address in here but this is
somewhat more advanced concept so feel
free to consider this optional material
and it's a phenomenon that you may run
into that may be somewhat useful to
understand but even if you don't
understand it the normal equation and
linear regression you should get back to
work okay here's the issue for those of
you there are maybe somewhat more
familiar with linear algebra on what
some students have asked me is when
computing this theta equals X transpose
X inverse X transpose Y what if the
matrix x transpose x is non-invertible
so for those of you that know a bit more
linear algebra you may know that you
know only some matrices are invertible
and some matrices do not have an inverse
we call those non-invertible matrices
singular or degenerate matrices the
issue or the problem of x transpose X
being non invertible or should happen
pretty rarely and in octave if you
implement this to compute theta it turns
out that this will actually do the right
thing I'm getting a little technical now
and and I don't want to go into details
but octave has two functions for
inverting matrices one is called PNF and
the other is called in and the
differences between these two are
somewhat technical ones called the
pseudo-inverse one's called the inverse
but you can show mathematically that so
long as you use the P in function then
this will this will actually compute the
value of theta that you want even if x
transpose x is non-invertible the
specific details between here what is
the difference between pinioned and was
what is in that's somewhat advanced
numerical computing concepts that I
don't really want to get into but um I
taught in this optional video I'll give
try to give you a little bit of
intuition about what it means for x
transpose x to be non-invertible
for those of you that know a bit more
linear algebra and might be interested
I'm not going to prove this
mathematically but if x transpose x is
non-invertible there are usually two
most common causes for this the first
cause is if somehow in your learning
problem you have redundant features
concretely if you're trying to predict
housing prices and if x1 is the size of
the house and feet that the square feet
and x2 is the size of the house and
square meters then you know one meter is
equal to three point two eight feet
rounded up rounded to two decimals and
so your two features will always satisfy
the constraint that x1 equals three
point two eight squared times x2 and you
can show for those who there's somewhat
advanced in the algebra now but if
you're an expert in linear algebra you
can actually show that if you're two
features are related via a linear
equation like this then the matrix x
transpose x will be non-invertible the
second thing that can cause x transpose
x to be non-invertible is if you are
training if you're trying to run the
learning algorithm with a lot of
features concretely if m is less than or
equal to n for example if you imagine
that you have M equals 10 training
examples that you have N equals 100
features then you're trying to fit a
parameter vector theta which is you know
n plus 1 dimensional so it's one hundred
and one dimensional you trying to fit
101 parameters from just 10 training
examples and this turns out to sometimes
work but to not always be a good idea
because as we'll see later you might not
have enough data if you have only ten
examples to fit you know 100 or 101
parameters we'll see later in this
course why this might be too little data
to fit these this many parameters but
commonly what we do then if M is less
than n is to COC we can either delete
some features or to use a technique
called regularization which is something
that we'll talk about later in this
course as well that will kind of let you
fit in all the parameters
use of all the features even if you have
a relatively small training set but is
this this regularization will be a later
topic in this course but to summarize if
ever you find that X transpose x is
singular or alternatively finder is
non-invertible
what I would recommend you do is first
look at your features and see if you
have redundant features like this x1 x2
you are being linearly dependent or
being a linear function of each other
like so and if you do have redundant
features and if you just you know delete
one of these features you really don't
need both of these features to just
delete one of these features that would
solve your non-invertibility problem and
so we first think through my features
and check if any are redundant and if so
then you know to keep deleting redundant
features until they no longer redundant
and if your features not redundant
I will check if I might have too many
features and if that's the case I would
either delete some features if I can
bear to use fewer features or else I
would consider using regularization
which is this topic that we'll talk
about later so that's it for the normal
equation and what it means for if the
matrix x transpose x is non-invertible
but this is a problem that you should
run hopefully you run into pretty rarely
and if you just implement it in octave
using p in using the p in function which
is called the pseudo-inverse function so
we use a different linear algebra
library it's called a pseudo-inverse
but that implementations should just do
the right thing even if x transpose x is
non-invertible which should happen
pretty rarely anyway so this should not
be a problem for most implementations of
linear regression